# Self_Assessment_Final_Project
## Purpose of assignment:
   * The purpose of this assignment was to provide a self-assessment, team-assessment, and a brief summary of my data bootcamp final project 

## Self-Assessment:
   * Overall, I believe I was a vital asset to my team's success in this final project. Moreover, I was the one who initially pitched the concept for our project and immediately volunteered to take the lead on data visualization and creating the dashboard. In the beginning, I coordinated a zoom meeting and volunteered to help visually map out the way our ETL process will look using everyone's reccomendations/feedback. Using my strengths in Tableau data cleaning, dashboard and story creation, I was also able to create a visually appealing "story" that entailed multiple dashboards and even incorporated dynamic filter functions. I also created my Dashboard branch on Github and made sure to push any relevant items to that branch. 
   * When it came to subjects that others had taken the lead on (i.e. SQL Database Creation, Machine Learning analysis), I made sure to be a good team player and give feedback whenever possible. I made time to participate in multiple team discussions and volunteered to assist wherever possible. I ensured to maintain open communication with my team, even during times I knew would be difficult for me. 
   * There were many challenges I had to overcome in order to complete my part of the project. The greatest personal challenge I had was my wife going into labor two weeks early during the middle phase of the final project. However, I am glad I frontloaded all my work in the beginning so I would not have to scramble as much during the final phases of the project. Once home from the hospital, I still made sure to dedicate my time to my team and did everything in my power to make sure we were successful. 

## Team Assessment:
   * I have absolutely no complaints regarding my team. I was fortunate enough to be partnered with individuals with as much drive and dedication I would expect from myself. My team never complained on days to meet via zoom and were extremely knowledgeable in their subjects. Additionally, they gave great feedback and were quick to accept feedback as well. There were no real challenges, except for when I had to be in the hospital with my wife for over 48 hours. My team was incredibly understanding and I was easily able to communicate with each member via slack messenger. I am definitely going to miss my teammates and if asked, would work with them again without hesitation. 

## Summary of Project:
   * The initial purpose of our project was to analyze MLB player statistics including but not limited to: RBIs, Hits, On Base Percentage, Batting Average, Wins, Doubles, Triples, Home Runs, and position, to predict average salaries and determine if and how players are being over or under compensated within 10% of the predicted salary. We cleaned our data, used PGadmin to create a SQL database, used Tableau to analyze and visualize the data, and then used two supervised Machine Learning Models (specifically Multiple Linear Regression and Random Forest) to predict salaries. Overall, we weren’t successful in reaching our original goal of being able to determine if players were underpaid or overpaid. We realized during our analysis that there are many human factors when it comes to determining the monetary value of a player - potential, injuries, previous championships, trade deals, team budgets, franchisement, celebrity status, etc. Given more time and possibly better data, we will be able to improve our model in the future. 
